# marstek-venus-c-hardware-notes
Reverse engineering notes, hardware analysis, and extracted content from the Marstek Venus C plug-in home battery 
### Warning
The inside of this thing is DANGEROUS. There are lethal voltages present inside. The short circuit current of the battery melts metal (think tools and jewellery!). Do not mess around with this thing if you are not qualified to do so. I'm an electronics engineer with 20 years of experience designing off-line SMPS for a living.

### Opening the unit:
- Using a cutter knife, cut along the silicone seal between the acrylic front panel and the metal case. Insert the knife about 15mm and try not to scratch the backside of the acrylic plate as it is printed on the back side (if you want to keep it nice looking)
- The acrylic plate is fixed to the metal case with a generous amount of double-sided foam tape. To remove the plate, pry with you fingers between case and plate. After a while, the foam tape will come off or rip in halves. Takes time and some cursing.
- The metal case has a 'front door' held in place by 3 countersunk M4 screws, which may be partly covered by the foam tape
- Limited access is possible by removing the 4 hex screws of the connector panel and gently pulling it out

### Misc findings:
- The whole unit has a decent build quality, the components are from ok brands, the electrolytic capacitors may be a little on the cheap side.
- The PCBs are partly painted with a hard coating to prevent moisture damage. This makes probing signals on fine-pitch components difficult.
- There is no obvious fuse in the whole system. I hope there are provisions for a failed-short MOSFET/IGBT in the fullbridges/BMS, otherwise: Uh-Oh...

### General topology:
- The on/off button on the connector panel is connected to the BMS and switches the battery voltage to the Converter PCB. This means that the Converter/Control PCBs are powered down and are safe to work on when the green light of the button is off (the 5 electrical safety rules apply regardless!).
- The BMS is connected to the Control PCB via CAN bus and RS485. BMS communication seems to be through the CAN bus. This RS485 connection is in parallel to the external RS485. The function of the RS485 connection is somewhat unclear. The whole device is a Modbus slave, maybe the BMS answers on some adresses and the Control on others. As long as there is Modbus communication, the device does not shut down. Maybe the RS485 connection is used as keep-awake function.
- The 5V Aux voltage on the RS485 connector is generated by a separate Meanwell SD-15C-05 isolated DCDC-converter module connected to the battery voltage. So there are 5V @ 3A available on the RS485 connector. Pretty beefy. This looks a bit like an afterthought as the connection to the battery voltage is a y-splice on a wire harness.
- The DC-link is the centerpiece of the system

### Control PCB:
- Main control MCU STM32G474VET6
- SWD on an unpopulated pin header. Signal names are on the silkscreen
- some internal status LEDs
- some unmarked unpopulated pin headers. Maybe STM32 UART connections for debug messages (can be seen in Remko's decompiled firmwares).
- Reset button
- Quectel WiFi-module connected to a UART on the MCU. The WiFi-module debug UART is routed to an unpopulated pin header.
- The WiFi module has an IPEX-4 connector which is connected to an IPEX-to-FAKRA cable (which is fixed to the PCB with white silicone glue). The Antenna has a FAKRA connector. As the WiFi module is on the edge of the PCB near the connector panel it is possible to connect a different Antenna or cable through this opening. This would make it possible to use a directional antenna in case of WiFi signal strength issues.
- GoldCap on MCU Vbatt pin. Likely to keep RAM / RTC contents
- Separate FM24C1024A I2C EEPROM for configuration and maybe calibration
- There is a bridge rectifier with 2 resistors and a normally-closed relay in series between AC input and the DC link. This seems to be a bootstrap circuit to supply the control circuitry if the BMS does not switch the battery voltage on.
- Auxiliary isolated UC3842-controlled flyback to convert battery voltage to DC-link voltage
- Auxiliary isolated UC3842-controlled flyback to convert DC-link voltage to several 12V-ish voltages on the primary and secondary side
- The 12V on the secondary side is converted to 5V using a small buck converter. The 3.3V for the MCU is generated by a small linear regulator from the 5V rail.
- Several TLV274 quad opamps used for analog signal conditioning of the many voltage and current measurements
- Several HC08 AND-gates between MCU and the isolated gatedrivers on the converter PCB. Probably some kind of emergency-shutdown when the software runs amok.
- The signals to and from the Converter PCB run through the ribbon cable. The signals to the 3 fullbridges can be identified in the PCB traces.
- The internal fan runs on 12V, has PWM control and tacho feedback
- isolated ChipAnalog CA-IS3082WX RS485 driver with a small isolated DCDC-converter nearby
- isolated ChipAnalog CA-IS3062 CAN transceiver

### LED PCB:
- the fuel gauge segments are made of 4 LEDs, the status segments are made of 2 LEDs
- driver transistor between main MCU GPIOs and LEDs
- each segment is connected to a main MCU GPIO
- small buck converter 12v to LED drive voltage

### Converter PCB:
- bidirectional LLC-converter with 2 fullbridges between battery and DC-link
- bidirectional IGBT fullbridge between DC-link and AC in/output acting both as grid-tied and off-grid inverter as well as PFC in charging state
- the LLC transformer (and maybe the resonance inductance if external to the transformer) and AC output filter inductor is off the PCB and potted near the external heatsink for cooling
- the bridge FETs/IGBTs are TO-247 units mounted on the heatsink
- 12 (for 3 fullbridges) novosense NS16601BD isolated gate drivers

### Cell stack and BMS:
- 16S1P pouch cells with terminals on opposing sides (red and black plastic parts)
- 4 temperature sensors between cells (pulled out for visibility on the picture)
- nuvoton KA49517A AFE with balancing circuitry
- Nation N32G455 MCU

### STM32G474:
- no readout protection
- can be powered through SWD connector via ST-link
- there is a custom bootloader at the beginning of the flash (0x08000000 to 0x08002800, 10kB)
- the firmware *.bin files in Remko's firmware archive do not contain the bootloader. If flashed to the MCU, the MCU does not start up.
- the flashdump is extracted from a unit with a 1.53 firmware. When flashed to another unit (that bricked itself during initial firmware update), the unit is working.
- It should be possible to combine other firmware versions locating them at 0x08002800 with the bootloader part and flash them on th MCU.

⚠️ Disclaimer

This repository is provided for educational and research purposes only. Reverse engineering and firmware extraction may violate terms of service or warranty agreements. Use responsibly and ensure compliance with local laws.
